# Inspiration for Dev Agent Posturing

From my perspective our biggest goal is encoding context about the bigger picture "why?" in dev-agent. For example I feel like agents often forget
- our product surfaces are: revit addin, scripting, as a C# library to use in scripting, pea, frontend (cli's, tuis, web apps)
- our most critical shared modules are to these surfaces are: settings runtime because json in the blood, scripting because this is how agents do work, and revit data contracts
- our shining north star is pea as a near omnipotent operator of Pe.Tools, meaning that most Pe.Tools features need to be exposed, either through strong host apis to wrap as tools (e.g. to wrap our postable command stuff) or strong C# apis and documentation for scripting
  - how we expose context to pea to enable thes behaviors should be very very very carefully considered. Prefer generating doc-like artifacts on demand

For DX reasons, it is *ABSOLUTELY CRITICAL* that deep thought is given to how code in general, but specifically types, are shared. We should strive to merge similar shared models even if it requires refactor; rely on codegen structures that surface errors early; and create clean, clear and reuable abstractions and primitives (both for future DX, saving context, and so pea has an easier time scripting)

These wishlist features for examples have a very wide reach: 
- we give pea a skill that explains the public FamilyFoundry service and how to interpret BIM manager requests, then pea runs migrations and stuff on its own
- we can display json in auto generated ui, with live updates on the frontend for properties with dependant providers

## Thoughts and Resources

I have repos cloned locally: "C:\Users\kaitp\source\repos\skills" (matt pococks skills repo) and "C:\Users\kaitp\source\repos\mastra" and I can clone more. See remaining resources below.

- I *really* resonate with Matt Pococks failure modes and want posture towards this framing. His methodology has evolved since he gave the talk, as you see in his repo. I also want to learn from these changes that he's made
- I found that matts old grill-me and designbn-an-interface skills were really nice and they *triggered reliably*. What we've lost in our own version of matts skills is that they dont seem to trigger as reliably
- my general philosophy with pea agent, which also extends to pea dev, is to build as much of the operating loop and the available world into the harness, while also keeping the harness and all the context as minimal as possible
- I want to learn from mastra's own tool and agent descriptionns as much as possible

---
# Matt Pocock YT "Software Fundamentals Matter More Than Ever"

 [music] Hello everyone. Having a good conference so far? Are you having a good conference so far? Good. Wonderful. I have a message for you that I hope will be um a comforting message for folks who believe that uh their skill set is no longer worth anything in this new age, which is I believe that software fundamentals matter now more than they actually ever have. And I'm a teacher and I've been recently teaching a course called Claude Code for real engineers. Nice and provocative. And in the process of kind of working on this course, I had to come up with a curriculum about AI coding, which is a bit of a nightmare because things are changing all the time, right? AI is a whole new paradigm. We need to chuck out all of the old rules surely so that we can bring in the new stuff. And there's a kind of movement that has come up around this, which is the specs to code movement. And the specs to code movement says that okay you can write a specification about how an application is supposed to work then you can use AI to turn it into code. If there's a problem with the application you then go back to the spec. You don't really look at the code. You just change the spec. You run the compiler again and you end up with more code. Raise your hand if you've heard of that. Keep your hand raised if you've tried it. Okay. I've tried it too. You can put your hands down. And what I noticed was I would run it and I would try not to look at the code but I would look at the code and I realized I would get code out first of all and then I would run it I would get worse code and then I did it again I got even worse code and I got it again I kept running the compiler kept running the compiler and I would just end up with garbage. You know raise your hand if that's happened to you. Yes. I don't think this works. the idea that we can just ignore the code and just have the code let it manage itself is just sort of v coding by another name and I didn't believe that back then I thought okay how do I fix the compiler how do I make it so that it doesn't produce bad code each time or worse code and so I thought okay I need to explain to the LLM in English what a good codebase looks like let me dig out one of my old favorite books which is a philosophy of software design by John ouster go on Amazon get it. Um, and he has a definition for what bad code looks like. He calls it complex code. Complexity is anything related to the structure of a software system that makes it hard to understand and modify the system. Right? So, a a bad codebase is a codebase that's hard to change. If you can't change a codebase without causing bugs, then it's a bad codebase. Good code bases are easy to change. So, I thought, oh, that was good. Let's try another book. Let's try the paragmatic programmer. Go on Amazon, get it. They have a whole chapter on something called software entropy. And this is exactly what I was seeing. Entropy is the idea that things tend towards um disaster and uh floating away from each other and collapse. And this is exactly how most software systems behave too is that every time you make a change to a codebase, if you're only thinking about that change, not thinking about the design of the whole system, your codebase is going to get worse and worse and worse. And that's what I was seeing. Everything inside the specs to code idea that you just run the compiler again and again was making worse code. Now there's an idea that sort of drives the specs to code movement which is that code is cheap. Raise your hand if you've heard that phrase before that code is cheap. Yeah. Well, I don't think this is right. I think code is not cheap. In fact, bad code is the most expensive it's ever been. Because if you have a codebase that's hard to change, you're not able to take all of the bounty that AI can offer because AI in a good codebase actually does really, really well. And this means good code bases matter more than ever, which means software fundamentals matter more than ever. That's the thesis of this talk. So, let's actually get into practical stuff. I'm going to talk about different failure modes that you may have experienced or you may not have experienced yet with AI and how you can avoid them by just going back to old books and looking at good software practices. Sound good? So, the first one is that the AI didn't do what I wanted. You know, I I thought I had a good idea in my head and the AI just did something totally different or it did some uh like specs that I you know, it just made something I didn't want. Raise your hand if you've hit this mode. Cool. Okay. Well, this is what they say in the pragmatic programmer is that no one knows exactly what they want. Is that you and the AI, there is a communication barrier there, right? And so when you're talking to the AI, that's kind of like the AI doing its requirements gathering. It's basically working out from you what it is that you need. And I realized that there was another book, Frederick P. Brooks, the design of design, and it talks about this idea called the design concept. is that when you have more than one person designing something together, you have this idea sort of floating between you, this ephemeral idea of the thing that you're building. And that thing that you're building or the idea of it is called the design concept. It's not an asset. It's not something you can put in a markdown file. It is the invisible sort of theory of what you're building. And so I thought, okay, that's what's going on. Me and the AI don't share a design concept. So I came up with a skill. The skill is very very simple. It's called grill me and it looks like this. Interview me relentlessly about every aspect of this plan until we reach a shared understanding. Walk down each branch of the design tree which is another thing from Frederick P. Brooks resolving dependencies between decisions one by one. This skill is like uh the repo containing this skill has like 13,000 stars or something like it just went nuts. Went viral. People love this thing. it. These couple of lines means the AI asks you like 40 questions, 60 questions. I've had it ask uh people a hundred questions before it's satisfied they've reached a shared understanding. And it means it turns the AI into a kind of adversary where it's just continually pinging you ideas and trying to reach a shared understanding. And that means that the conversation that you then generate, you can take that and turn it into a product requirements document or something. or if it's a small change, you can just uh do turn it directly into issues and then your AFK agent will then pick it up. And don't at me on this, but I personally believe this is better than the default plan mode in the tool that I use, which is claw code. Plan mode is extremely eager to create an asset. It really wants to uh just create a plan and start working. whereas I think it's a lot nicer to reach a shared design concept first. So that's tip number one. Now failure mode number two is that the AI is just way too verbose. It's like you're almost talking across purposes with the AI. Raise your hand if you uh feel this. If you ever experience that failure mode. Yeah. It's kind of like the AI is like talking just using too many words to try to communicate what it's doing. It's not like you're talking uh using the same language. And this to me felt very very familiar. Right? If you've ever been a developer for a long time and you've worked with let's say domain experts, someone building an application um let's say the domain expert wants you to build something on uh I don't know microchips. You have no idea what microchips are. You need to establish some kind of shared language, right? Because otherwise they're going to be using terms you don't understand. You're going to be translating that into code that maybe you don't even understand and certainly the domain expert won't. And so there's this kind of language gap between you and the domain expert. And so I went back to domain driven design. DDD, this is something I'm still kind of on the edge of exploring, but everything I'm reading about DDD is just music to my ears. I freaking love it. And DDD has a concept of a ubiquitous language. With ubiquitous language, conversations among developers and expressions of the code and conversations with domain experts are all derived from the same domain model. It's essentially a markdown file full of a list of terms that you and the AI have in common. And you really focus on those terms and you really make sure that they're aligned with what it actually means and you use them all the time in the code when you're talking about the code when you're talking to domain experts or in our case when you're talking with AI. So I made a skill. This skill is the ubiquitous language skill. Basically just scans your codebase, looks for terminology, and then um creates a markdown file. Creates the ubiquitous language markdown file. A bunch of markdown tables with all of the terminology. And this then I pass it to the AI and I'm able to read it to and I actually have it open all the time when I'm grilling with the AI and planning and that. And what I noticed by reading the thinking traces of the AI, it not only improves the planning, but it allows the AI to think in a less verbose way and actually means that the implementation is more aligned with what you actually planned. So this has absolutely been a powerhouse. It's been unbelievably good. So that's tip number two. Create a shared language with the AI. So okay, let's imagine that you've aligned with the AI. You know what it is you're supposed to be building. the AI has built the right thing, but it doesn't work. Raise your hands if that's happened to you. Yeah, just doesn't work. Well, there's an obvious thing that we can do to make that better, which is we can use feedback loops. We can use um static types. You know, if you're not using TypeScript, u that's crazy. Uh if you're not using uh if you're building a front-end app and you're not giving it the LM access to the browser so it can look around, absolutely needs that. And you obviously also need automated tests. And one sort of thing I notice here is that even with these feedback loops, the LLM doesn't use them very well. It doesn't kind of like get the most out of its feedback loops in the way that a veteran developer would. And so it does what it tends to do is just does way too much at once. it will produce like huge amounts of code and then think, "Oh, I should probably type check that actually or I should uh yeah, maybe check a test on that or maybe do something like that." And this in the pragmatic programmer they describe as outrunning your headlights as essentially driving too fast because the rate of feedback is your speed limit. The rate of feedback is your speed limit, which means that you should be testing as you go, taking small deliberate steps. And the AI by default is really not very good at that. And so skill number three is TDD. You should be using testdriven development because TDD forces the LLM to really take small steps. You create a test first. You make that test pass and then you refactor the code to make it nicer and consider the design. The issue here is that testing is really hard. Testing has always been hard. And the reason for that is there are a ton of different decisions you need to make when you write a test. You need to figure out how big a unit do you want to test. You need to figure out what to mock. You need to figure out what behaviors do you even want to test in the first place. And all of these decisions are dependent. So if you are testing a really big unit like an entire massive application, then it might be quite flaky. You might not want to test that many behaviors. you know, if you only test this unit, you need to mock this unit. You know, it's all interlin. And I've been thinking about this for years for my entire development career. And what we notice is that good code bases are easy code bases to test, right? So, here we're starting to get back to the idea of code being important is that the better your codebase is, the better your feedback loops are. Because you're able to um give better feedback to the LM, it produces better code. And so I thought what does a good codebase what does a testable codebase look like? Again we go to John [clears throat] erhout. He talks about having deep modules in your codebase. Not shallow modules not lots of modules that expose like kind of um lots of functions. They should be relatively few large deep modules with simple interfaces. Let's compare them quickly. Deep modules, lots of functionality hidden behind a simple interface, hiding the complexity. You can look inside the deep module if you want to, but you don't need to. You can just use the interface. Shallow modules, not much functionality, complex interface. And I'll just wait for you to take the photos. Shallow modules in a codebase kind of look like this, where you have a ton of different tiny little blobs that the AI has to walk through and navigate. And this is really hard for the AI to explore actually. And so often what you'll see is if you have a codebase like this, which AI is really good at creating code bases like this is that you'll have a situation where AI doesn't understand what your code is doing. It will attempt to explore the code, but because it's poorly laid out, filled with shallow modules, it doesn't maybe get to the right module in time or doesn't understand all the dependencies, all that stuff. It doesn't understand your code. And so what does a codebase full of deep modules look like? Well, it looks like this where it's the same code, but it's just structured inside boundaries where you have these interfaces on the top. And these interfaces, you should probably have a lot of control over them and design them really well. Otherwise, you know, AI might mess up the design. But the implementation, you can kind of leave that to the AI a bit. So, how do you turn a codebase that looks like this into a codebase that looks like that? Well, I've got a skill for that. Improve codebase architecture. Turns out this is not it's quite complicated to do this, but it's a like a set of steps that you can reusably do again and again. You just sort of explore the codebase, look for opportunities where there's code that's kind of um related, and wrap all of that in a deep module. And this is a testable codebase because the boundaries around this code are so so simple. You test at the interface, you verify using that interface and you're good to go. And so this is a codebase that rewards TDD. But how about failure bone number six, which is your okay, let's say your feedback loops are working. Let's say that things are kicking into gear. You're able to ship more code than you ever have before, but your brain can't keep up, right? Uh, raise your hand if you felt more tired than you have ever before in your development career. Yeah, me too. It's knackering. And I think that this is a codebase that actually makes it harder for your brain because you as well as the AI need to keep all of that information in your head. Whereas this, not only is it simpler for you to read and understand, it also means you can kind of treat these modules or these deep modules as gray boxes. you can kind of say okay I'm going to just design the interface but I'm not going to worry too much or not review the implementation too much you can do this obviously with uh things that are less critical in your application can't do this with uh you know various things like finance or whatever but in many many modules in your app you don't need to think about the implementation too much as long as you have a testable boundary outside the module and as long as you understand its purpose and can design it from the outside I have found this has really saved my brain because I can just go okay the AI I'll let you handle what's inside the big blob I'm just going to test from the outside and verify it so that's tip number five design the interface delegate the implementation but this means that whenever we're touching the code whenever we're planning stuff we need to think about and be aware of the modules in our application we need to know that map really well it needs to be part of our ubiquitous language we need to build into our planning skills as well. So my writer PRD inside the PRD I'm specific about the module changes and the interfaces inside those modules how they're being modified. I'm thinking about them all the time. And this comes from Kent Beck. Invest in the design of the system every day. And this is the core of it right because specs the code we are not investing in the design of the system we are divesting from it. We're getting rid of that. Whereas this I think is absolutely key. And so code is not cheap. That's the message I want you to take away. Code is important. And if we think about AI as a really great on the ground programmer, a kind of tactical programmer, a sergeant on the ground making the code changes, you need someone above that. You need someone thinking on the strategic level and that's you. And that requires software fundamental skills that we've been using for 20 years for longer. Now, if you are interested in any of the skills I put up here, it's in the GitHub repo, Mac PCO skills. And if you're interested in the training that I do or uh any free stuff, I'm on YouTube, I'm on Twitter, but I'm also at aihero.dev where I have a newsletter that you can check out. Thank you so much. I hope that this gives you confidence in this new AI age that you can actually make a good impact. Thank you.


# Ben Davis YT "How I Turned Pi Into the Ultimate Coding Agent" 
Note: he talks about the Pi coding agent and how hes been using skills/commands. The yt transcript is poor

 A couple weeks ago, I put out a video about Pi. This was kind of a first impressions video where I talked about the SDK a ton. Some brief thoughts on the TUI and actual coding agent part of it, but I hadn't used it all that much, and I didn't really have too much to say about it. I wanted to make a follow-up video because I have been using it a ton. Pi has become my main day-to-day coding agent. I'm using it over everything else. Not really using codecs all that much anymore. I'm pretty much doing everything with GBT 5.5 on low reasoning and the PI coding agent. I know you've probably heard of a lot of different coding agents and seen plenty of videos on those, but just trust me and hear me out on this one. This one is different. The way it works is not like any of the other coding agents. And if you've ever tried Pi before, you can probably already tell that something weird is up because this is not what Pi looks like out of the box. When you install Pi for the first time, it is a super minimal coding agent. Like the most minimal of any of them. It includes four tools right out of the box, a super simple, super basic system prompt, a very nice, clean, functional TUI, and that is it. Remarkably, that's actually enough for it to be a really good harness right out of the box. These models have gotten so good at working with Bash and writing a bash commands, reading files, writing files, exploring file systems, all that stuff. It's all you really need to have a great experience, but you can go a lot further with it. The thing that I want to spend this video mostly talking about is going to be the extension system in Pi. When I first tried Pi, everyone was telling me, "Oh, you got to go try out the extensions. They're really, really good." And I was assuming they're kind of like extensions in other programs, which are good and useful, but they're just like adding in like maybe an extra command here and there. And I did not realize the depth at which you could customize Pi entirely off of the extension system. It is so [ __ ] good. And the best part about all of it is that the Pi coding agent is all you need to customize your Pi agent. The way I've been thinking about these things lately is that Open Code is kind of like VS Code. When you install Open Code, you get really good defaults right out of the box. They have opinions. They have a beautiful UI. They work naturally with like all these model providers. They even have their own free models that just work right out of the box. When you install Open Code, you will get a good experience. It has opinions that can be extended, but you know, it's a good foundation that is very accessible and approachable to a large number of people that isn't quite as customizable to the insane degree that PI is because PI is very analogous to something like Neoim. I was never a huge Neoim person, even though I've used Vim bindings since kind of the beginning when I started learning to code in high school. I saw people online talking about how cool Vim was and I was like, "Oo, I want to learn that. That looks cool." I learned it. It is baked into my brain. I cannot work at a code editor without Vim motions at this point. But the way I've been doing it over the years has just been using cursor or VS Code or now Z. Zed is my new primary editor. I've been really happy with the direction that thing's been going in. I just use those with a bunch of custom key bindings and Vim motions and it is good enough. I haven't really felt the need to go down the full Neoim rabbit hole to have that deep custom setup thing. I have gone down the rabbit hole to do it on Pi. And I think the big difference is Neoim was kind of a pain to configure, especially like four years ago. There was a lot of stuff you had to learn. There was a lot of trial and error you had to do. A lot of configs you had to look up. It wasn't trivial. It took a lot of time and effort to learn and build out your custom Neoim setup. Pi you can do the same level of customization just without the learning curve. Because the learning curve is telling the PI agent to do it. When I say telling the PI agent to do it, literally I just have a fresh PI instance loaded up. Nothing weird or different here other than my custom extensions, which we'll get into in a second here. If I'm just like, how do I make a custom PI extension? If I just ask it how to do that, you can see right here the very first thing the agent did is it read this extensions.md file within the node modules installed cuz I have this installed globally with V+. That's just how I installed it. All you have to do is just npmi-g. When it's installed, it includes a bunch of handwritten markdown files that explain how to customize and work with Pi. And those are exposed to the agent via the default system prompt. So, it knows right out of the box if it needs to do something within Pi, it should reference this, figure out how to do it, and then will give me the answer on how to do it. So, you can see right here, it's telling me how to make a global extension or a project extension, uh, how to do /reload to make it actually work once you've made the changes. That's another really [ __ ] cool thing you can do with this is in other coding agents if you make some changes you have to restart them to get them to work. The way PI is architected it is fully hot reloadable. So if I change something about my PI extensions like I added a new one. Just add in a basic hello world extension that is a slash command uh called hello world when I do /hello world it should just print out hello world to the tui. It's going to run through and actually create my extension. So, it's writing the new extension pi extensions hello world.ts. And now that this is done, I can just do /reload. And now that it has reloaded my new extension, you can see the hello world.ts is in my list here. /hello uh and then I'll pass in world. And now it will just tell me hello world. That's it. I now have a fully custom extension added to my Pi instance. That's literally all it takes. There's also a bunch of other things you can do with Pi. Like I said in my previous video, I talked a ton about the SDK. It's a really powerful SDK that OpenClaw is actually built on top of and because of how minimal and powerful it is, it results in you just being able to do insane things on top of it. This was a project that was created by Mario. He's really cool. You should very much go follow him on Twitter if you're not already because the thesis behind Pi is to make a really powerful minimal core that is super robust. The actual TUI is super robust. The extension system is super robust. The core tools are everything you'll really need for most models. then you can build your own stuff on top of it. Like it doesn't even include MCP support. If you want MCP support, the way you add that is to tell PI, "Hey, I want to support MCPS. How do I do that? Can you add that in for me?" And it'll just do it for you. And as a result, over the last 3ish weeks of working with this every single day, the primary model I've been using for this is GPT 5.5 on low reasoning. It works incredibly well with Pi. I've built out my own custom system that fits me perfectly. I've fully open sourced my Pi config. I'll have it linked down below if you want to take a look at it. We're going to talk deeply about all the changes I made and why and what my actual workflow is. But first, we need to hear a word from today's sponsor. For the longest time, we've all been doing our CI either in GitHub actions or in some solution that tries to fix GitHub actions. But the problem is GitHub actions is fundamentally broken. And I think at this point, it is much better to move the CLI elsewhere to something like today's sponsor, Depot. Their new CI product is incredible. It is a full CI engine that exists entirely outside of GitHub actions, which makes it far faster and more reliable. And the entire thing is APIdriven, which means that it is fully compatible with GitHub action syntax. The only thing you need to do to migrate an existing GitHub actions workflow over to depot is doci migrate with a really good CLI and it'll just kind of work. You get a ton of benefits from this. One of them obviously being performance. I mean, just take Postto for example. Without Depot, their builds are about 72 minutes. With Depot, they're about 4 minutes. So, uh, slight difference there, but they also have the DBO registry, which works beautifully with the CI, especially with their new pull through cache system, which basically means that if you have a Docker image or some other image stored within some other registry and you need to pull that in during CI, normally that's going to be a very slow, fragile, painful experience to do. But what Dbo is able to do is serve those cache layers from their CDN that is globally distributed, meaning that your build times are going to just naturally go down a ton. And it also solves a lot of the really obnoxious headaches you would have to go through to hook up one of these container registries instead of having to go through the painful OOTH flows a bajillion times for every single build. You just sign into the registry once from your depot dashboard and then it is set up forever and that is all you ever have to worry about. From their CI to their registry to their CLI and much much more is the ultimate place to handle your builds at dav7.link/depo. Before we get into how I customize mine, I want to talk briefly about what my sort of workflow with this actually looks like. I've been a huge fan of the desktop apps for coding agents for a while. Really since the codeex app came out a couple months ago, I've been pretty bullish on those. Then T3 Code came out and I was doing pretty much all my work in T3 Code for a while. But I've actually kind of found myself going back to the terminal to do more work in there because I'm just so happy with Pi right now. It just works so damn well. Generally speaking, what my workflow ends up looking like is I am using Semox for my terminal. This is a project that was released a couple months ago, I'm pretty sure. I was a little iffy on it at the time. I was like, "Okay, this is a good idea, but I don't know how well-maintained this is going to be over time. Like, where is this actually going to go?" I was a little iffy on it, but it's one of those ones that I've been pleasantly surprised by. It has only gotten better over time. I've been super happy with Semox. It's in a very good state right now, and I'm doing basically all my work with it because what it allows me to do is have these like side sections here where if I do command one, I can go down to the original section where I was in, I can go back to this project or this project or this project or this project. So, like I can multitask across projects with this. And then when I'm in an actual project, generally speaking, what I have open is I have on the left here in the split view, just command D to split them. I'll have my PI agents plural. Usually, I'll have a bunch of tabs of PI open here and then I'll have my dev server open over here so I can see my actual terminal running. That whole workflow has just kind of worked for me. I haven't had any real issues with it. It's really good. And then if I need to go in and read some code or edit a file or whatever, I'll just open up zed or whatever and just do it in there. Eventually I might figure out a way to get back to a more desktop app focused version, I really want to get pi added into T3 code in a first class way. It's pretty easy to get it just working in there. I already have that going. But to get it to really work so that like the slash commands work, the extensions work, it's like a super first class PI experience. It's going to take a little more work. So going to figure that out and really do that right. Once that's done, I'll probably go back to that. But for now, this is a good way of doing things. And especially with the way I like working right now with GBT 5.5, always use it on low reasoning cuz this model's really good out of the box. I'll basically just be doing a bunch of different tasks on one project in parallel with different PI instances. So I'll have one where I'm working on some backend stuff, one where I'm working on some frontend stuff. And I'm very aggressive with making new threads. The slash commands in here are really good. So like if I'm doing some work and I'm like, "Okay, that's done. I don't want to work with that anymore." I can slashcopy to grab the last message and as context so I can paste into a new session to clear out the context window. Or maybe I want to copy everything from a session because I did some research with the BTCA skill. Then I would just do /copy all. And this is a custom extension that I made. We'll talk about that in a second. And then I can just do slash new make a new session. It's fully cleared. It all just kind of works. I can do slashres whenever I want to to go back to an existing session. or if I'm working within a session, there's this really nice slashtree command which will show you like a tree of everything that the agent has been doing. So like I had this user message. These are all the tool calls that it did. This was the assistant message. It's really easy to traverse around the things you're actually doing and do very manual hands-on context management. This feels like the ultimate coding agent for when you're doing coding agent work, but also paying a lot of attention to the code and really not vibe coding super hard, but rather thinking pretty deeply about what you're actually doing. It's a great agent for that. So, as I said, my Pi setup is fully open source. I will link it down below if you want to go clone it onto your machine. You can have the exact same Pi setup that I have. I have in the instructions here that I don't actually recommend that you use my specific setup. It's more just a reference for like, okay, this is some of the cool stuff you can do with it. So, what I would honestly recommend doing is just going through my extensions, taking a look at what's there, figuring out what is and isn't good, and just prompting it into your own agent. That's the real benefit you're getting here is the ability to hyper customize your Pi into exactly what you want it to be. Mine should not be yours. We all work differently. If you want something that just has good defaults and good opinions right out of the box, there are tons of options for this. The point of Pi is to customize your own thing, if that makes any sense. But again, if you do want to use it, full instructions to do all of this are right down at the bottom of the repo linked in the description below. But getting into the actual extensions that I do have, the main ones are first of all, copy all. All this does is adds in a new command so I can copy the entire thread. So all of the messages I sent, all the messages the assistant sent onto my clipboard so that I can paste that into some other session as like extra context. This is really useful if I'm doing like a research session or something like that. Like trying to figure out, okay, what is the right shape of an effect v4 service? How should I actually be using that? Get all the code examples, get all like the back and forth traces in there, copy paste that into a new session so that the other agent can get full context of that without getting overloaded by the tool calls. Diff is just a way for me to more easily review the changes. I do slash diff. It gives me a list of all the files that were changed during that last turn. I can hit enter on one of them. It will open it up within zed for me, which is really nice. I have firecrawl search. One of the biggest things I miss from Codeex is the web search. OpenAI has the single best search tool in the industry because they have the entire internet cached on a CDN somewhere. Is really fast. It works really well, but you obviously lose that if you're outside of the codeex harness. So, I added in Firecrawl. They're really good. I've been very happy with them lately. Kind of like Exa if you've used Exa before, but they have a web search tool and they have a scrape tool. All the scrape tool does is take any web URL you give it. it will scrape it and give you that web page in LLM readable markdown. So this just lets my model have good web search tools without relying on curl for everything. Flow title is just to get that like nice custom PI title. Uh OC is to give it full context and instructions on how to connect to and work with my OpenClaw instance because I do all the management of that from my agents because that's just the best way to do it. I have my Mac Mini right there. I SSH into it over tail scale. I'm just telling the agent how to do that. So if I want to like send over a project to be running in the background on that or I want to add in a new skill to my open claw that uses a bunch of custom scripts, this is the way I actually do that. Open code zen login is I don't actually think that this is required. I think this is me being stupid. I think you can just put in the open code zen API key and it'll work. But I do have this hack in to make sure that ooth and API key login for open code works. Probably don't need it. TPS tracker is a fun one I added in so that you can see down here at the bottom a rough guesstimation of how fast the generation was. So like for this one on GBT 5.5 low it was 140 tokens per second. That feels about right. It was very very quick. Uh TX9 is a little thing that I'm working on which is like my personal background agent system. It's basically just a skill that gives the model a bunch of things that it can and should do and a description of how this flow works to take the project that I'm currently working in, snapshot it, grab everything in there, grab a prompt from me, send it over to my Mac Mini, have a coding agent kick off on the Mac Mini to actually do the job, and then if I want to go back to it later, I run TX9 again. One of the options in there is to review or pull or followup. So, I can just kind of work with it that way. It's kind of the GStack thing where you're creating a program out of markdown. This again could be a skill. The only reason it's an extension, not a skill, is because skills will always be semi- injected into context with the title and the description, which isn't ideal. I only ever want to trigger this if I explicitly call it. So, if I explicitly do /tx9, that is the only time this gets injected into context because one of the things you can do with PI extensions is actually send a message during the thing. It's great. Usage is just another thing that's basically a skill, but I don't want it injected unless I explicitly tell it to. That will give the model a bunch of instructions on how to calculate my usage across all of the agents that I use. Pi, Codeex, um I want to get factory in there and a couple others, but it's just a way for me to generally gut check how much I've been using as of late. Yeet is a really useful one. This is like uh it's a command that Theo came up with a while ago where he had his cloud code make a yeet script where if he just runs that in his terminal, it will auto add and commit with the message he passes into it. Then ask him if he wants to push. If he says yes, it'll push it up. This is just that, but the LLM does it. It just tells the model that flow and then when it's done, it will print out where it pushed that to and if you tell it to, it will create a PR. Basically, just like if I'm done with a change and I want to push it to prod, I do slash yeet and it's done. And then finally, zsh over bash. This is just to make sure that whenever I'm doing the exclamation point to run commands within pi, which I do all the [ __ ] time. Make sure that it's using zsh so I get my normal completions and I don't have things that aren't on my path cuz again, I'm using zsh on this machine. Need to make sure that works. The only other things of note here is the custom theme I have of GitHub dark default that I would recommend ripping cuz I just really like how my pi looks. It looks really, really [ __ ] good with all my themings. I have my skills, but these are shared across agents. These are specific to this project. This is one that I want to talk about in another video. It's just a really cool front-end design skill that's better. And then BTCA local, which is just a set of instructions on how to explore a repo. I could definitely see myself turning that into a PI extension. Because again, the problem with skills is they are always kind of in context. Even if you just have something in the description was like, "Hey, don't ever call this. This is for the user to manually trigger." They're still in there. And I still don't love that. Like you can still trigger like BTCA local like this and it'll spin up the BTCA local instance, but it's not quite as nice as something like / which will actually just send the prompt directly without having that in context before I call this actual thing. And to hammer this point home, I wanted to show off Dylan Moroyy's Pi setup. He has this open source as well. He posted this, which is a little screenshot of his Pi, at least as of February 18th. I would bet that he's changed it since then, but it's really cool like all of the stuff he did. like this is his PI agent. This is my PI agent. They look nothing alike and that's the point. It is a neoim style coding agent that you can customize the [ __ ] out of and it is so easy to do cuz you are just telling the agent to actually do it. Obviously, he has a completely different set of extensions to what I have. Um, I won't go through all of these, but there's just like some cool ones that even me reading this now, I'm like, "Oh, that's a really cool idea." like this update one where it adds a /update command and a d-update flag which will detect the install method for pi and then it will update pi uh make sure that everything is fixed reporting on version changes and all that stuff like this is really useful. I would like to have this and in fact I am going to do this. I'm going to grab that. So I'll just like vaguely yap at it like hey can you add this in for me? It's going to do a bunch of work figure out how to add the extensions. Do a little bit of reading here. He also has his own custom web tools. He's using Exa. Um, that also works really well. Personally, I prefer Firecrawl. I think that they are generally better, and I like the pricing model, but the point is you can just stick in whatever you want. It doesn't really matter. He added in a custom to-do tool. I don't personally love the to-do workflow, but this does make sense if this is something you want. He also has PMCP to make sure that like MCP actually works within Pi because it doesn't exist out of the box. And a really cool thing he has in here is this Pi Ephemeral. I was looking at his setup earlier and I was very confused as to why in his setup and I'll have this link down below. I was really confused as to why he had this ephemeral directory in here with some MCP and skills. It seems like what this actually does is it adds a/ ephemeral UI for selecting project local skills prompts extensions MCP servers. And effectively what this does is it makes sure that it doesn't have these loaded 24/7 instead of the current system that I have where like any of my skills will always be loaded if they're global. These are ephemeral skills that can only be triggered if you explicitly add them into the context. This is awesome for MCP servers. Like thinking about something like the reptile MCP server. It's really useful. I really like it, but I don't always want that to be in context. I don't always want the agent to have it. It's one of those things that I want to manually trigger. This is the way to do it. This is really cool. Couple other things like Pycloak to mark sensitive text so you don't like accidentally leak API keys on stream. That'd be pretty useful for me. whimsical to just like change it to be more whimsical. Like again, you can just kind of see like there are a million ways to customize this thing. And the way I would recommend using it is not by sitting down and be like, "Okay, what are all of the possible things I would need within Pi?" That's not the way you do it. The way you do it is you just start with a base level like these are the things that I really need right out of the box, which is probably nothing. Maybe a theme or something like that. Then as you're working, as you run into these things and you're like, "Oh man, I'm really tired of having to manually tell the agent, can you commit these changes and push them up?" That's when you go in and you're like, "Wait, I can just make an extension out of this. Hey, can you make a reusable extension called / that does that thing?" Now you have it forever and you can just do / going forward. That's the way I populated mine and that's the way I'm continuing to populate mine. You just change it as you go. Don't do it up front. Do it as you need them. Do it as you've done something multiple times. Sounds like you've done some repetitive action three or four times, then it's time to probably make an extension. And it's really [ __ ] easy. And also that update extension we added earlier. I'm just going to do / reload. I'm going to do /update. Let that run. It is updating Pi uh via VP, which is something that is really useful cuz I get that message of like, oh, make sure to update your Pi instance and I have to go out and I have to do it manually with VPI-G or VP up-g or whatever. It's just dumb. This just does it for me. This just fired off the command in the background to update my Pi. It's fully up to date. Great. Super useful. And now I never have to think about that ever again. This is the magic you get from this agent. I highly recommend trying it out. It's great. If this was helpful for you, you should definitely like and subscribe. I will have a lot more to say about Pi and models and other random stuff in the future. I'm sure probably a good video on the screen that you should click on. And until next time, enjoy your new pie.

# Ben Davis YT "I Replaced the Project I Spent Months on With a Markdown File"
 At this point, I've made a lot of videos, and of all the videos I've made, this is the most hear me out, bro video I have ever made. Just please hear me out on this one because I am about to spend about 20 to 30 minutes defending GStack. Some of you probably just groaned and the rest of you are probably very confused as to what GStack is. If you are not on Twitter, you probably haven't seen this yet. GStack is Gary Tan, the president of Y Combinators exact clog code setup. It has 23 very opinionated tools, does a bunch of stuff. it like fully hijacks your Claude code instance and turns it into an entirely new thing. It is Gary's setup, Gary's way of doing things. And he's been posting a lot about this. The most infamous of all these posts was the absolutely insane week for agentic engineering post where he's talking about his 37,000 lines of code per day across five projects and still speeding up. A lot of people dunked on him for this because some of the things he's working on, like one of the sites is called Gary's List. Actually, I should probably pull it up. Oh my god, it is worse than I remembered. This is the most clawed slop site. Dude, I am in downtown San Francisco with 5 gig internet. How the [ __ ] is your static blog taking that long to load? What are we doing here, man? This is a gigantic Ruby on Rails app because Y Cominator is a Ruby on Rails shop. Respect, I respect that they are sticking to their guns and still using it, but it is not the greatest technology. It does not produce the best sites and especially when you let Claude Code go wild and produce a 500,000line Ruby on Rails static blog site that I'm pretty sure at some point was shipping full Ruby unit tests to the client in the JavaScript payload. There was Ruby code in there. This is a very questionable project. So, a lot of people dismissed and wrote off all the things that Gary has been doing. I'll be super honest, a month and a half ago, I did not have anything particularly good to say about what he was working on other than it seemed really funny and I was entertained by it until he put out this project called Gbrain. And this is where we're just going to go completely off the deep end. Again, I apologize in advance. GBrain is Gary's opinionated OpenClaw/Hermes agent brain. And I know that we are getting to the point where words really don't have any meanings anymore. What GBrain is is it is a memory system for your openclaw, which has a bunch of pretty useful things in there. I actually happen to have this running on my open claw right now. The thing that got me to look into GBrain was one of the posts he made where he was talking about the fact that at the end of every single day, he would ingest a bunch of data from what he did that day from coding agents to emails, messages, whatever other artifacts were generated that day. They would all be loaded into the open claw, loaded into the Gbrain. It would dream quote unquote and like analyze through all of these documents and things that he did. And it was producing like actually useful, interesting insights for him. That combined with a couple other people I trust actually going deep on OpenClaw and doing useful stuff with it. Matthew Berman had a really good video talking about his like actual day-to-day real life use cases for OpenClaw. He and I actually have a surprisingly similar job in day-to-day work. We have similar problems that we need to solve. The way he was solving them and the way he was doing things really just made me rethink my opinions on it because all of these technologies I had written off. There's going to be a theme we're going to talk about later in this video which is the entire AI world. Stop writing things off. So, I finally was like, "All right, fine. We'll take a closer look at this and maybe try some of this stuff." And when I decided to do that, I went back into GBrain and I started reading through the skills. And as I went through these skills, I came to some very strange realizations, which has unfortunately led to pretty deep AI psychosis. And in order to pay for the psychiatry bills, we're going to need to hear a word from today's sponsor. Today's sponsor is Upstash. And you've probably heard of them for their Reddus offering. It's really good and it's what I use for a ton of different projects. But the thing I wanted to talk about today is their new product, Upstash Box. I've talked a lot about why sandboxes matter so much these days, and they have one of the coolest sandbox products I have seen from any company. If you've used their stuff before, you know how good their developer experiences, and they brought that into the sandboxing system. All you need to do to create a new box is await box.create, create. Pass in the runtime you want to use as well as pass in the agent you want to use because they have it set up so that you can just use codeex or cloud code or open code or even a custom agent natively within an upstash box and just kind of send a prompt to it. But it also works really well if you want to use it as a sandbox that backs some other custom agent you're working on. Take this for example. It's the new version of BTC I've been working on where I have an instance of Pi running on my server that is using GPT 5.5. And as it's going through and doing this generation, you can see it's running a couple commands here. These commands are being run on an upstach box. And you'll notice there was like no lag from me sending the prompts to actually starting to see stuff happen because upstach boxes are created insanely fast. If I go to the dashboard and take a look at the box for this generation, you'll notice within the workspace tab, I have the effect small repo because in this chat I asked it about the effect small repo. So it went through and cloned it and now I can see that within the dashboard within the workspace which is actually really convenient to actually see what's happening here. It also has a scratch pad in here where it can start writing code. And if you look closer at the commands being run here, they're just normal bash commands. And that's like the big benefit of having a sandbox for basically anything is these agents are amazing at writing bash and running in normal computers. Well, if you're building a cloud-based system, you really want that running in a sandbox. And there is no better experience for doing that than upsting insane to the point where I honestly thought that this was bugged when I first tested it out. You'll notice that this one ran for 1.93 seconds. It ended up costing $0 cuz they are just not very expensive. But the generation didn't actually take 1.93 seconds. It took a lot longer than that. But that number is lower because the boxes are built on active CPU time, not just on wall clock time, which makes them so much more cost-effective for any normal agent workload. I wish it was possible to fully convey why sandboxes are so useful in a two-minute ad spot, but the reality is I just kind of can't. You're just going to have to take my word for it and go start experimenting with them for yourself at davis7.link/upstash. So, what is it about these skills that put me all the way down the AI rabbit hole? and it is the fact that they read kind of like programs. Like when skills were first introduced, the way I thought about them and I'm sure most people thought about them is these are just markdown files with useful context for the agent. So that if you want to do something like work with an external database, maybe you're hooking up a planet scale database to your project, you can bring in the planet scale skill that'll have all the information on how to use the CLI, how to write the correct TypeScript code for it, the correct endpoints to use, how O works, all that stuff. It's basically just like little bite-sized pieces of documentation that you can put inside of your agent. The way Gary is using skills here and a lot of other people have started using skills including an openclaw is not for just giving like general context. It is for writing instructions and programs. I'm going use office hours as an example here cuz I think it's better. Uh you can see just a bunch of metadata up here. Not that interesting. The very first thing you see when you look at the skill is this like 30 something line bash script. This looks like a scam. I should not be running this on my computer. But that that is what is happening here. the office hours skill. The very first instruction is to run this. It just tells the agent run this script which is telling you to run some code. This is no different than having like a TypeScript file that did all of this stuff in it as normal hard-coded stuff. That's all we're doing here. It's just the agent is the layer that's executing this. The agent is the compiler in runtime quote unquote for markdown. God, I hate myself for saying that, but that is where we are. The agent is running this code and then you just see there's more and more instructions. It's taking you through what you're actually supposed to be doing here. It has more commands that it wants the agent to actually run to set up the directories properly. A bunch of basically if then trees just in English where like if teleprompted is no and like intro is yes, then do this. This is just an if statement in English that gets run like normal code because we're in a coding agent and coding agents can just arbitrarily run bash commands, read files, write files, write TypeScript files and then execute those TypeScript files. This is something that 3 to four years ago would have just been like a Python script that ran in a cron job. But now it is a bunch of markdown instructions that can be given to an agent to be run anywhere anytime. And as I was reading this and I was starting to slowly understand the implications of what I was actually looking at here. I started looking into the things that I was building. One of the things I was building is this project called better context. It is a thing I started back in December because I was really frustrated with the ability of models to write stuff like spelt and effect and other things I cared about. They just didn't understand how to do it. So I was constantly copy pasting stuff from the documentation, constantly having to write and give them special examples. All of this random stuff just got really old really fast. The point of better context was to make a new coding agent that ran on my computer where I could do btca ask- r spelt. The spelt would be linked to the spelt repo- qashion like how do remote functions work? It would spin up an open code instance under the hood, ask the question to an agent. It would search the actual git repo. There was a ton of code in there for like cloning down the git repo, managing all of the resources on the computer, managing the configured model, managing the actual coding agent that was being used here, the authentication system. I also added a TUI for it so that you could ask questions, store threads, go back and forth with it that way. There's a lot of stuff in this. I went very hard on the open- source CLI side of things and there was no real reason to do that. I'm glad I did it. I learned a lot from it. But the thing I've done with this is I pretty much deprecated all of the main code from this other than some stuff for the web app, which I'll talk about in the future once that's finally released. Yeah, I'm busy, guys. I'm sorry. I I wish it was out, too, but bear with me. We'll get there. All of the BTCA local stuff is now literally just a skill, and it's better. You can read through what the skill actually does here. It's quite simple. It is called BTCA local. It gives it a little bit of context of what it is, and then it defines a workflow here. So, the first thing I did is I set up some startup cases. So if the user just invokes the skill with no extra context, I want it to load into like an app startup state. So I have to show you what this actually looks like. I'll just do pi. Open up my pi instance. This is my coding agent of choice. Works great in everything. It doesn't have to be pi. You do /btca local. So this is going to invoke the skill. All that's doing is injecting it into context. It's going to read through all of that, see what it has to do, and now it is spun up btca local, quote unquote, and it knows where it should be cloning repos onto my machine. It knows what it's supposed to be doing with those repos. And I have all this stuff in here and I'm like, "Okay, I want to take a look at how the new service implementation works in effect v4." So, I just ask it that. This is the exact same thing the old BTCA did where it was a TUI instance that you pointed it at a repo and then asked it a question and it gave you an answer. We're doing the exact same thing just within our existing coding agent and it works just as well. Now, obviously that is not the most complicated program in the world. At the end of the day, all that's really happening is you are cloning a git repo. you are pointing a coding agent at it, asking it a question, and then streaming that answer out. This isn't the most complicated thing in the world. So, yeah, of course, a coding agent can handle it. There are a huge number of tasks that fall under that category. And I think my main point with all of this is that the number of tasks that do fall under that umbrella of things that a coding agent can just kind of do out of the box is substantially bigger than we think. I want to use this skill called impeccable as an example. I found this fairly recently. It's really, really, really cool. There was a thing that Theo was posting about a long time ago that he really wanted where he wanted the ability to have a coding agent or whatever that was run something in your browser so that as you're working within a React app or a spelt app or whatever, you could just click on an element and pass in a prompt to tell the agent what you actually want to do with it. That is not a thing that existed until impeccable and now it's just that. So I want to show off how this actually works. I'm going to do /imp impeccable live which is going to invoke the skill and I'm going to pass in live which tells it I want to use it in live mode. We run this skill here. It's going to do a little bit of work to get all this set up for me. See the plan it put together is it needs to load the impeccable live context and command reference. And you can see here it is resolving a missing product.m MD blocker before live mode because the way impeccable works is it creates a design MD and a product MD file I believe that are like the specs for how your design and product is supposed to actually work. Normally, if you were writing a program like this, you would need to like have those saved in a structured state so that deterministic code could actually read and understand those. And if you went to run something like the live mode, it would do static checks to make sure that those files were there, and then it would warn you about that, push you down a different flow within the tree. Here, you can just tell the agent, hey, if these don't exist, run through the flow to make them exist. You can do all of this in English. So, I'm going to go through the startup thing here. As I've been going through and doing this, I'm basically answering a questionnaire from the model that was given to it by Impeccable to build out a design system and product system for this site. We're going to be uh screwing around with the design of Maria's claw. Site. This is already a beautiful site. Like I don't really have any notes or things that I want to have changed on this. Uh it's more to just show how this stuff works. But you can see it's asking us questions like, okay, what outcome should the site drive for those developers? quickly understand the incidents, save and site sourcebacked events, feel skeptical before adopting Claude, share a memorable critique page. I think definitely feel skeptical. Uh that's what I would want them to do personally. So now that it's done all of this, it is going to start the live workflow. And again, this is just a skill. It I didn't install anything on my machine. It's installing things on my machine, but I didn't do any of those installs. I just brought the skill in from the skills marketplace. It now exists globally. I invoke the skill. It tells the agent what to do. It is now installing a live.mjs thing within my actual site. I remember earlier when I was being nice to GStack and Gary and all of that. Still think it's really cool and I still directly think that what Gary's doing is awesome. We'll talk about that in a second. This is really annoying now within my global claude config. There is now an agent browser skill. I'm pretty sure. Do I even have aclaw directory? Oh no, never mind. All right. I was going to slander Gary, but that's on me. This isn't Gary slander. This is factory slander. Actually, I think factory has a dumb skill here. This is one thing too where like you can kind of just see as things are mostly working, but also there's some like little issues within this. You know, we're now working with non-determinism machines. The point of this video is not that all of our programs should suddenly just be markdown files and we should be vibe coding literally everything. I've seen a bunch of posts like that where AI is going to replace all of UI and all of APIs. That's not the case. Will it replace a lot of UI and should a lot of UIs get a lot more dynamic very fast? Yes, definitely. Go watch my Pi video if you want to hear me rant about that more. But there are still core pieces of code that need to be code. I do not want my database to be non-deterministic. I do not want my off to be non-deterministic. Payments cannot be non-deterministic. Like there are a lot of things in here that need to just still be core super rockolid code. It's the glue in between them. the CRUD layers, the frontends, the CLIs, all that stuff, that can get a lot more dynamic. If all you're doing is taking data from place A, running transformation on data, putting it in place B with a nice little graph in front of it, that whole flow, coding agent, coding agent should almost certainly be doing that at this point or eventually like this for us, this is great. We all like coding agents. We use them every day. Most people don't. The there's no universe in which I could get someone like my mom to adopt Droid Factory in order to read her email. That's not happening. But eventually when we get to the point where like the chat GBT web app gets really good or codeex becomes even more mainstream, we'll hit a point where there will be really nice dynamic guies for this that'll make a lot of sense for most people. We're just not quite there yet. And getting back to Impeccable, you can see what's now happening when I go to this site in dev is I get these little highlights around elements. I'm just going to go here and I'm like, make the claw man blue. So I've just that's the prompt I'm going to give it. I'm going to tell it to make the clawed man blue. It's going to generate me some variants here. And then it got an event here. It is now executing some reads. And now the coding agent can just edit the file based on the edits I gave it. It would be no different than me typing in a prompt here. Just happened to be happening within the web app with some fancy scripts stuck in there. That's done. And we now have a blue claw band. That's all it took. It's genuinely insane the things that you can now just do with markdown files. You can go take a look at the impeccable source code. It's open source. I'll have it linked down below. You should definitely go start that repo. But you can see the majority of it. It's just a bunch of skills which are very detailed markdown files explaining how it should work. There are some other things that it includes in here like the CLI. The CLI just has a couple scripts that are used for a couple different pieces like the live.mjs thing. But still the core driving force behind the actual program is the markdown file. All the JS is is some functions that the markdown can call if that makes any sense. It's very similar to the GStack example from earlier where in that case the actual program is the markdown file and then all of the bash commands that he has just like handwritten into those. Well, he didn't handw write them. The agent wrote them. But the uh bash commands inside of the skills are the actual functions that it can call to interact with the world and do useful things. That's kind of what I'm trying to say here. I know that all of this is very very weird and new. I'm still trying to make sense of it myself. I don't know exactly where this goes. One of the things that I've also personally been doing now that I've started thinking about how this would actually work is I have to do a lot of data syncing between a bunch of different data sources. The YouTube API, the X API, email APIs, a bunch of other things like that. I've started doing all of that with a markdown file plus some nice little CLIs that connect directly to my Postgress database. That's been working really, really well instead of writing really long complex TypeScript scripts for this. just letting the agents kind of go off and write one-off bash scripts to do the specific syncs I need. Like if I just need to sync data from my channel, that's one thing it can do. If I just need to sync data from two other channels, but I need to sync like a specific video from one and then a historical video from the other, I can just do that. It gives me a lot more flexibility in the way I use these things and I'm not tied to what has been implemented in code because the core functionality might have been implemented in code in the past but these weird edge cases that are just kind of impossible to deal with in deterministic systems without having a spaghetti sprawl of code that is way overengineered you can just tackle them by talking to the agent which has at least the appearance of intelligence at this point. And so with all that said I want to kind of close with this article from Gary called Thin Harness Fat Skills. Uh, it's actually a very very good article. I have it linked down below. You should read it. I'm at the point right now where I think this is a pretty accurate description of where things are right now. Is it where they'll be in a year? I'm not sure. But it is sure as hell where we are right now. And these five definitions he has in here are the things I really want to talk about. Again, you should go read the full thing for full context. I think these just kind of summarize the things I was trying to get across earlier because these five definitions kind of encapsulate how the agents can solve problems for you. The first one is a skill file. is a reusable markdown document that teaches the model how to do something, not what to do. The you tell it what you want it to do. The skill is supplying the process. It is defining a workflow or a program in a certain shape. And you can do a lot more with these than you think. It works like a method call. It takes in parameters. You can invoke it with different arguments. This is what I did with the BTCA skill where it will behave differently based on if you do/BTCA and then give it a question or you just do /BBTCA with no extra context. It behaves differently every single time. And I really like this example/investigate. It has seven steps. Scope the data set, build a timeline, diorize the document, synthesize, argue both sides, site sources, and it takes three parameters: target, question, and data set. You point it at a safety data set with 2.1 million discovery emails, and you'll get a medical research analysis determining whether a whistleblower was silenced, pointed at a shell company, and FEC filings, and you get a forensic investigator tracing coordinated campaign donations. That's the whole point. It would be very hard to do this with deterministic code, but now that you just have LLMs to just take your process and mold it to the actual problem, it kind of works. Next thing is the harness. This is the thing that the LLM actually runs in. That would be Claude Code, Pi, Open Code, Codeex, whatever you prefer. I highly recommend Pi because it's super customizable. It's a thin harness. It doesn't do all that much. It basically just lets the model interact with the computer. The actual instructions and tools for how to do that interaction, that comes from the skills. And that's the reason I like Pi so much. I get to customize it with my own context, not with the built-in opinionated context from the harness like you would get with something like clock code. Then there's resolvers. These are the routing tables for context. Effectively, all this just means is like imagine you have a markdown document with like if you need to learn about the O layer of this project, go to this file that is a resolver. It is just a pointer from one thing to another that the model can read and interpret to get the correct information out. Latent versus deterministic. I think we are getting into kind of flowery language here of like latent space is where intelligent lives. The model reads, interprets, decides, judgment, synthesis, pattern recognition. Like yes, that is kind of what's happening here. But also to just keep this really simple and clear, what he's actually saying here is non-deterministic model doing a thing versus calling a TypeScript function that will run the exact same way every single time with same input gets the same output. That's all it is. And this is a very tricky balance. You need to figure out what pieces need to be static deterministic things because models can fall off the rails really really badly. Saving user to the database should be a same input same output type problem versus figuring out the exact proper permutation or figuring out the exact workflow a user wants you to do or which channel it wants you to sync that should probably be more non-deterministic. Then the last piece is diorization which is effectively just memory. This is basically just the model building up a structured knowledge base about something which makes it substantially more useful. And to summarize everything we just talked about, the actual architecture this produces is the fat skills on top which is what the GBrain, the GStack, the impeccable, the BTCA V2, whatever. All of those are big skills that at the very top of this. It's where 90% of the value lies, which I agree with. Then there's a thin CLI harness in the middle. In my case, that would be PI. That is the thing that actually lets the model interact with the computer. Then finally, there's the application at the bottom, which would be like the actual database layer or the file system or the search pipeline, whatever the hell you want to use. You kind of get the gist here. This article goes on a lot longer. I don't want to go through all of it here. Like I said, it is linked down below and you should go read it. It is actually a very good article. I said at the beginning of the video to hear me out on this one. Hopefully, this has made some semblance of sense. I know this video has been all over the place cuz I'm still kind of processing what all of this means and looks like for myself. I don't really have the answer. But I will say that I have definitely come around on a lot of the things that Gary has been doing. While I still have my disagreements about a 500,000line Ruby codebase, I think that a lot of the things he's doing, even like the line of code per day thing, while silly on paper, is directionally correct enough to where more people should be pushing more agents further across more projects to be just experimenting with what these things can do because again, if you had told me 3 months ago that I'd be writing markdown files that would be useful programs, would have laughed at you. But here we are. Doing stuff like this is how you find weird stuff like the markdown is a program. Now, this will hopefully push more people to try more random things like that. And I think that is a net good. This is an Overton window shift type thing where should everyone be doing 40k lines of code a day? God, no. But should everyone be doing probably more per day? Yes. And if that gets people in that direction, it is a good thing. I have no real idea where all of this is going to end up in 6 months. But certainly for right now, I am uh going harder with these AIs than I ever thought I would. If you've watched my videos for any amount of time, I'm sure you've seen me cross many thresholds from I literally just use tab complete. I don't get any value out of cursor to I like letting cursor write very specific functions for me but no more to I let opus write a bunch of code for me but I will hand read every single line of it and I can't let go of that and I always have to be in my editor to okay I'm willing to let more things go in parallel and maybe not read all of the code and let it go further and further to now whatever the [ __ ] we're doing right now with markdown files like it is just a jump after jump after jump and these are happening in shorter and shorter increments because things are changing faster and faster and I think holding on to dogma right now is more destructive than ever. You know, you go back to the late 2010s, we were doing CRUD apps. We were doing basic B2B software. It was like, okay, how can we optimize the time to first bite on our web page? That is very different from what we're doing right now. Maybe I can blow up this entire startup with a markdown file. Let's see if that works. That's a lot more fun. I'm enjoying it. If you haven't kind of bought into any of this and you just think it's all hype and it's all nonsense, it's definitely not. There's definitely a lot of value here. We're just trying to figure out what it is. And living in a world where no one has the answer and all of us are just experimenting at the same time is a pretty unique and enjoyable moment. And I'm just going to enjoy this as long as it lasts. And I have no idea where it's going to end up. If you got this far, thank you. Make sure to like and subscribe and we'll uh more psychosis coming
